README.md, before:

# core &nbsp; ![Dev Build](https://github.com/EventiGroup/eventi/workflows/Build/badge.svg) &nbsp;[![Nx](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%20with-Nx-cc00ff.svg)](https://nx.dev/)

Live-streaming & VOD platform for the performance arts.

# Installation

Basic architecture map of the application looks like this:

![StageUp](https://ftp.cass.si/h48o9h9km.png)

## Homebrew (skip if Windows)
Install Homebrew if you haven't already (macOS)

```sh
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

brew -v       # Homebrew 2.7.5
brew update
```

Check if it works `brew -v`, should give something like: `Homebrew 2.5.11`.  
Then run `brew update`

## Node & npm

```sh
brew install node   # install via https://nodejs.org/en/download/ on windows
node -v             # v15.5.0
npm -v              # 7.3.0
```

## PostgreSQL & Redis

To make life easier we'll be running the databases inside docker containers, first install Docker Desktop from here: <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>  
To pull in the databases docker images use these commands:

```sh
docker run --name su-redis -p 6379:6379 -d redis  
docker run --name su-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -p 5432:5432 -d postgres:11
```

And the containers should be shown as running in Docker Desktop.

## Nx

[Nx](https://nx.dev/) is described as 'Extensible Dev Tools for Monorepos' - Nx allows for seamless code sharing & versioning management.  
To install it run:

```sh
npm install -g nx   # 11.1.5
```

Currently we just have just two applications - a frontend & a backend, but in the future this will be expanded to adding a task runner, notifications fan-out, recommendations engine etc, all of which will be sharing the interfaces + other shared code.

## Project Layout

```sh
  apps               # where all the apps live
    frontend         # the eventi frontend
    backend          # the eventi api
    api-tests        # integration tests
        
  libs               # where all shared code live
    interfaces       # typescript interfaces
      
  deploys            # info pertaining to deployment
    k8s              # kubernetes files (unused for now)
    docker           # docker-compose (dev, prod)
    nginx.conf       # nginx config for frontend server
      
  tools              # non-source code stuff
      
  .github            # github actions
  .vscode            # editor settings
  .prettierrc        # code formatting config
  .xo-config.json    # linter config
  nx.json            # workspace config
  package.json       # where _all_ packages are listed
  tsconfig.base.json # base ts config
  workspace.json     # where all apps, libs are defined
```

## Backend
Create a `.env` file in the root of `apps/backend/`, this will store our secret variables - please never share these with anyone - it has been added to the `.gitignore` so you don't need to worry about accidentally committing it.

```
PRIVATE_KEY="SOME_PASSWORD"
EMAIL_ADDRESS="SOME_EMAIL"
PG_USER="POSTGRES_USER"
PG_PASS="mysecretpassword"
NODE_ENV="development"
```

* `PRIVATE_KEY`: Used for hashing/salting of passwords
* `EMAIL_ADDRESS`: Used for the sender when sending e-mails via SendGrid
* `PG_USER`: Your postgres user account
* `NODE_ENV`: Used to define the environment in which the backend is running; can be `production`, `testing` or `development`

### MUX

We'll also need some private data from MUX, so now you'll need to sign up on there: <https://dashboard.mux.com/signup?type=video>  
Once you're signed up go to <https://dashboard.mux.com/settings/access-tokens>

Click _'Generate new token'_ on the right.  
Click _'Full access'_ on MUX Video for permissions & then click _'Generate token'_.

Add the following to your `.env` file by copy & pasting the values:

```
MUX_ACCESS_TOKEN="Access Token ID"
MUX_SECRET_KEY="Secret Key"
LOCALTUNNEL_URL="eventi-YOUR_NAME"
```

* `LOCALTUNNEL_URL`: When testing locally we want to be able to recieve webhooks from MUX, instead of port forwarding our router we'll use HTTP tunneling via [localtunnel](https://localtunnel.me/) to receive them.

We'll also need to add a new webhook, go to: <https://dashboard.mux.com/settings/webhooks>

Click _'Create new webhook'_.  
For the _'URL to notify'_ add `https://eventi-YOUR_NAME.loca.lt/mux/hooks`.  
And then click _'Create webhook'_.

There should be a row with your webhook, click _'Show Signing Secret'_ & paste it into your `.env`.

```
MUX_HOOK_SIGNATURE="MY_SIGNING_SECRET"
```

# Running

All packages that are used throughout all apps & libs are defined within a single `package.json` - the reason being having consistent versioning of dependencies across all applications.

Do `npm install` in the project root to install all required dependencies.

* __Redis__: Start from Docker Desktop
* __PostgreSQL__: Start from Docker Desktop
* __Frontend__: `nx serve frontend`
* __Backend__: `nx serve backend`
* __API Tests__: `nx test api-tests`
  - When developing a single test do: `nx test api-tests --watch`
  - This will first run all tests & then bring up a menu called `Watch Useage`, press `p` to filter by filename regex
  - Enter the filename of your test, e.g. `onboarding.story.ts` & press enter
  - Now you can develop the test & it will auto-re-run every time a change is made & saved

# Deployment

## shipjs

* Create a new token <https://github.com/settings/tokens>
* Add `.env` into root directory
* Add value called `GITHUB_TOKEN=XXXX`

# Useful Tools

* __VSCode__: <https://code.visualstudio.com/>
* __Postman__: <https://www.postman.com/downloads/>
* __DB Client__: <https://tableplus.com/>
* __JSONView__: <https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jsonview/chklaanhfefbnpoihckbnefhakgolnmc?hl=en>

Commit message:

Added info on generating Angular Component in Nx

README.md, after:

# core &nbsp; ![Dev Build](https://github.com/EventiGroup/eventi/workflows/Build/badge.svg) &nbsp;[![Nx](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%20with-Nx-cc00ff.svg)](https://nx.dev/)

Live-streaming & VOD platform for the performance arts.

# Installation

Basic architecture map of the application looks like this:

![StageUp](https://ftp.cass.si/h48o9h9km.png)

## Homebrew (skip if Windows)
Install Homebrew if you haven't already (macOS)

```sh
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

brew -v       # Homebrew 2.7.5
brew update
```

Check if it works `brew -v`, should give something like: `Homebrew 2.5.11`.  
Then run `brew update`

## Node & npm

```sh
brew install node   # install via https://nodejs.org/en/download/ on windows
node -v             # v15.5.0
npm -v              # 7.3.0
```

## PostgreSQL & Redis

To make life easier we'll be running the databases inside docker containers, first install Docker Desktop from here: <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>  
To pull in the databases docker images use these commands:

```sh
docker run --name su-redis -p 6379:6379 -d redis  
docker run --name su-postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -p 5432:5432 -d postgres:11
```

And the containers should be shown as running in Docker Desktop.

## Nx

[Nx](https://nx.dev/) is described as 'Extensible Dev Tools for Monorepos' - Nx allows for seamless code sharing & versioning management.  
To install it run:

```sh
npm install -g nx   # 11.1.5
```

Currently we just have just two applications - a frontend & a backend, but in the future this will be expanded to adding a task runner, notifications fan-out, recommendations engine etc, all of which will be sharing the interfaces + other shared code.

# Angular Commands within NX

In order to generate components under nx, instead of using the usual 
```sh
ng g n component-name
```
You will need to use:

```sh
npx nx g @nrwl/angular:component performances --project=frontend --skip-import
```

## Project Layout

```sh
  apps               # where all the apps live
    frontend         # the eventi frontend
    backend          # the eventi api
    api-tests        # integration tests
        
  libs               # where all shared code live
    interfaces       # typescript interfaces
      
  deploys            # info pertaining to deployment
    k8s              # kubernetes files (unused for now)
    docker           # docker-compose (dev, prod)
    nginx.conf       # nginx config for frontend server
      
  tools              # non-source code stuff
      
  .github            # github actions
  .vscode            # editor settings
  .prettierrc        # code formatting config
  .xo-config.json    # linter config
  nx.json            # workspace config
  package.json       # where _all_ packages are listed
  tsconfig.base.json # base ts config
  workspace.json     # where all apps, libs are defined
```

## Backend
Create a `.env` file in the root of `apps/backend/`, this will store our secret variables - please never share these with anyone - it has been added to the `.gitignore` so you don't need to worry about accidentally committing it.

```
PRIVATE_KEY="SOME_PASSWORD"
EMAIL_ADDRESS="SOME_EMAIL"
PG_USER="POSTGRES_USER"
PG_PASS="mysecretpassword"
NODE_ENV="development"
```

* `PRIVATE_KEY`: Used for hashing/salting of passwords
* `EMAIL_ADDRESS`: Used for the sender when sending e-mails via SendGrid
* `PG_USER`: Your postgres user account
* `NODE_ENV`: Used to define the environment in which the backend is running; can be `production`, `testing` or `development`

### MUX

We'll also need some private data from MUX, so now you'll need to sign up on there: <https://dashboard.mux.com/signup?type=video>  
Once you're signed up go to <https://dashboard.mux.com/settings/access-tokens>

Click _'Generate new token'_ on the right.  
Click _'Full access'_ on MUX Video for permissions & then click _'Generate token'_.

Add the following to your `.env` file by copy & pasting the values:

```
MUX_ACCESS_TOKEN="Access Token ID"
MUX_SECRET_KEY="Secret Key"
LOCALTUNNEL_URL="eventi-YOUR_NAME"
```

* `LOCALTUNNEL_URL`: When testing locally we want to be able to recieve webhooks from MUX, instead of port forwarding our router we'll use HTTP tunneling via [localtunnel](https://localtunnel.me/) to receive them.

We'll also need to add a new webhook, go to: <https://dashboard.mux.com/settings/webhooks>

Click _'Create new webhook'_.  
For the _'URL to notify'_ add `https://eventi-YOUR_NAME.loca.lt/mux/hooks`.  
And then click _'Create webhook'_.

There should be a row with your webhook, click _'Show Signing Secret'_ & paste it into your `.env`.

```
MUX_HOOK_SIGNATURE="MY_SIGNING_SECRET"
```

# Running

All packages that are used throughout all apps & libs are defined within a single `package.json` - the reason being having consistent versioning of dependencies across all applications.

Do `npm install` in the project root to install all required dependencies.

* __Redis__: Start from Docker Desktop
* __PostgreSQL__: Start from Docker Desktop
* __Frontend__: `nx serve frontend`
* __Backend__: `nx serve backend`
* __API Tests__: `nx test api-tests`
  - When developing a single test do: `nx test api-tests --watch`
  - This will first run all tests & then bring up a menu called `Watch Useage`, press `p` to filter by filename regex
  - Enter the filename of your test, e.g. `onboarding.story.ts` & press enter
  - Now you can develop the test & it will auto-re-run every time a change is made & saved

# Deployment

## shipjs

* Create a new token <https://github.com/settings/tokens>
* Add `.env` into root directory
* Add value called `GITHUB_TOKEN=XXXX`

# Useful Tools

* __VSCode__: <https://code.visualstudio.com/>
* __Postman__: <https://www.postman.com/downloads/>
* __DB Client__: <https://tableplus.com/>
* __JSONView__: <https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jsonview/chklaanhfefbnpoihckbnefhakgolnmc?hl=en>
