apps/backend/README.md, before:

# **Backend**

StageUp Core API is written in TypeScript & Express.

This guide will take you through setting up your .env file, including setting up Localtunnel, MUX, and GCP.

## **Setting Up**

Create a `.env.development` file in the project's root directory, *'/core'*, based off of the provided `.env.example`, this will store your secret keys - **never share these with anyone** - it has been added to the `.gitignore` so you don't need to worry about accidentally committing it.

### Localtunnel

In .env.development, find and replace the lines below, replacing "YOUR_NAME" with your name:

```
HTTP_TUNNEL_URL="stageup-YOUR_NAME.loca.lt"
LOCALTUNNEL_URL="stageup-YOUR_NAME.loca.lt"
```

### **MUX**

MUX is an API that enables developers to build video streaming experiences. To use MUX, you'll need to add some API & environment keys from MUX to your .env.

First, ask the SysAdmin to create a MUX account for you. you'll receive a confirmation email where you can finish registering.

Once you're signed up, ask Sysadmin to send you an access token and secret key. Then, add the credentials to your `.env.development` file by copy & pasting the values:

```
MUX_ACCESS_TOKEN="Access Token ID"  #is shorter
MUX_SECRET_KEY="Secret Key" #is longer
```

Next, go to [https://dashboard.mux.com/organizations/5g18fv/environments](https://dashboard.mux.com/organizations/5g18fv/environments). Look for the row with the environment that you just created and who's keys you added above. Under the 'Mux Data' colum, find and copy the "Env Key'. Paste this value into your .env:

```
MUX_DATA_ENV_KEY="Env Key"
```

Last, you'll need to create a new webhook. Ask the SysAdmin to do this for you and to send you your signing secret. Add this your your .env file:

```
MUX_WEBHOOK_SIGNATURE="MY_SIGNING_SECRET"
```

### Stripe

Stripe is a payment processing software service. To use Stripe, you'll have to add some credentials to your .env.

First, ask the SysAdmin to create you a Stripe account. Once it's been created, you'll receive a Stripe confirmation email where you can finish registering yourself.

Once you're signed up, toggle on *'View test data'* in the left side nav.

Then, go to [https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys). From here, copy the *'Publishable key'* & *'Secret key'* to your .env:

```
STRIPE_PRIVATE_KEY="pk_test_{CODE}" #sk_test
STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY="sk_test_{CODE}" #pk_test
```

Then, go to [https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks](https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks). Then, under *'Endpoints receiving events from Connect application'*, click *'Add endpoint'.* Within *'Endpoint URL'*, write "https://stageup-{YOUR_NAME}.loca.lt/stripe/hooks", then under *'Events to send'* click *'receive all events'*, then click *'Add enpoint'*.

Copy the 'Signing secret' from your webhook and add it to your .env:

```
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SIGNATURE="{KEY}"
```

Finally, go to [https://dashboard.stripe.com/settings/connect](https://dashboard.stripe.com/settings/connect). Go to the *'Integration'* section, toggle on *'View test data'*, copy your *'Test mode client ID',* and add this to your .env:

```
STRIPE_CLIENT_ID="acct_{ID}"
```

### Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

Most of StageUp's cloud infrastructure is set up on GCP.

Ask the SysAdmin to create you a GCP account. Then log in to GCP and from the dashboard copy the *'Project ID'* into your .env: 

```
GCP_PROJECT_ID=""
```

Next, you need to configure your GCP credentials in your .env. Ask the SysAdmin to create a service account for you and to send you the *'service_account.json'* credentials file. If the JSON file you're sent is named differently, just rename it to *'service_account.json'*.

Add this file into the root directory of this backend app (apps/backend). It's already added been added to the .gitignore, so you don't need to worry about accidentally pushing it. Finally, add the path to this file in your .env:

```
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="./service_account.json"
```

### Sendgrid

We use Sendgrid to send emails. You'll need your own account, so to go to Sendgrid and complete the registration process. 

Once you're logged in, go to [https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys) and create an API key called "Development Key". Give your key "Full API Permissions" and click 'Create & View'. Copy the api key code and add it to your .env: 

```
SENDGRID_API_KEY="" # SG.xx
```

You'll also need to authenticate an email address to use, ask the SysAdmin to do this for you. Once it's been done, you'll receive an email to authenticate your email address. Then add the email to the .env:

```
EMAIL_ADDRESS=""
```

Commit message:

misc(SU-980) [Internal] Swap AWS S3 out for GCP Cloud Storage (#265)
* Adding GCP storage to terraform

* Adding GCP storage to terraform

* Fixing terraform

* Trying to link service account to blob provider

* Implemented blob provider

* Implemented blob provider

* Removes comment

* Figuring ou xlf service probleM

* Trying to get storage to work

* removed SA creds

* Set process.env.GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS to empty string and cleared up comments/code

* Changed name 'google_Storage_....' to 'gcp_storage_...' for consistency

* Changed public URL for 'authenticated' access

* Fixing PR suggestions

* removed HTTP error messages

* /deploy

* Changed 'Email' to Service_account_email

* Installed GCP storage package with --save

* /deploy

* Renamed all instances of 'GCP_STORAGE_...' to 'GOOGLE_STORAGE_...' for consistency with key in secret manager

* Small fix on order

* /deploy

* deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* delete HTTP_TUNNEL_PROVIDER from map when in local environment

* /deploy

* /deploy

* Moved provider map filter to instantiation function

* /deploy

* Temporarily removed authstrat for changing thumbnail for testing in deployment /deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* Temporarily removed all functionality from changeAvatar to bugfix

* /deploy

* /deploy

* Bug fixing 405 error

* /deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* /deploy

* Adds README

* Removed all references to AWS-SDK

* Ran 'npm uninstall aws-sdk'

* Removed one reference to s3_url

* reverted commit

* Fixed package lock

apps/backend/README.md, after:

# **Backend**

StageUp Core API is written in TypeScript & Express.

This guide will take you through setting up your .env file, including setting up Localtunnel, MUX, and GCP.

## **Setting Up**

Create a `.env.development` file in the project's root directory, _'/core'_, based off of the provided `.env.example`, this will store your secret keys - **never share these with anyone** - it has been added to the `.gitignore` so you don't need to worry about accidentally committing it.

### Localtunnel

In .env.development, find and replace the lines below, replacing "YOUR_NAME" with your name:

```
HTTP_TUNNEL_URL="stageup-YOUR_NAME.loca.lt"
LOCALTUNNEL_URL="stageup-YOUR_NAME.loca.lt"
```

### **MUX**

MUX is an API that enables developers to build video streaming experiences. To use MUX, you'll need to add some API & environment keys from MUX to your .env.

First, ask the SysAdmin to create a MUX account for you. you'll receive a confirmation email where you can finish registering.

Once you're signed up, ask Sysadmin to send you an access token and secret key. Then, add the credentials to your `.env.development` file by copy & pasting the values:

```
MUX_ACCESS_TOKEN="Access Token ID"  #is shorter
MUX_SECRET_KEY="Secret Key" #is longer
```

Next, go to [https://dashboard.mux.com/organizations/5g18fv/environments](https://dashboard.mux.com/organizations/5g18fv/environments). Look for the row with the environment that you just created and who's keys you added above. Under the 'Mux Data' colum, find and copy the "Env Key'. Paste this value into your .env:

```
MUX_DATA_ENV_KEY="Env Key"
```

Last, you'll need to create a new webhook. Ask the SysAdmin to do this for you and to send you your signing secret. Add this your your .env file:

```
MUX_WEBHOOK_SIGNATURE="MY_SIGNING_SECRET"
```

### Stripe

Stripe is a payment processing software service. To use Stripe, you'll have to add some credentials to your .env.

First, ask the SysAdmin to create you a Stripe account. Once it's been created, you'll receive a Stripe confirmation email where you can finish registering yourself.

Once you're signed up, toggle on _'View test data'_ in the left side nav.

Then, go to [https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys). From here, copy the _'Publishable key'_ & _'Secret key'_ to your .env:

```
STRIPE_PRIVATE_KEY="pk_test_{CODE}" #sk_test
STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY="sk_test_{CODE}" #pk_test
```

Then, go to [https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks](https://dashboard.stripe.com/webhooks). Then, under _'Endpoints receiving events from Connect application'_, click _'Add endpoint'._ Within _'Endpoint URL'_, write "https://stageup-{YOUR_NAME}.loca.lt/stripe/hooks", then under _'Events to send'_ click _'receive all events'_, then click _'Add enpoint'_.

Copy the 'Signing secret' from your webhook and add it to your .env:

```
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SIGNATURE="{KEY}"
```

Finally, go to [https://dashboard.stripe.com/settings/connect](https://dashboard.stripe.com/settings/connect). Go to the _'Integration'_ section, toggle on _'View test data'_, copy your _'Test mode client ID',_ and add this to your .env:

```
STRIPE_CLIENT_ID="acct_{ID}"
```

### Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

Most of StageUp's cloud infrastructure is set up on GCP.

Ask the SysAdmin to create you a GCP account. Then log in to GCP and from the dashboard copy the _'Project ID'_ into your .env:

```
GCP_PROJECT_ID=""
```

Next, you need to configure your GCP credentials in your .env. Ask the SysAdmin to create a service account for you and to send you the _'service_account.json'_ credentials file. If the JSON file you're sent is named differently, just rename it to _'service_account.json'_.

Add this file into the root directory of this backend app (apps/backend). It's already added been added to the .gitignore, so you don't need to worry about accidentally pushing it. Finally, add the path to this file in your .env:

```
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="./service_account.json"
```

### Sendgrid

We use Sendgrid to send emails. You'll need your own account, so to go to Sendgrid and complete the registration process.

Once you're logged in, go to [https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys) and create an API key called "Development Key". Give your key "Full API Permissions" and click 'Create & View'. Copy the api key code and add it to your .env:

```
SENDGRID_API_KEY="" # SG.xx
```

You'll also need to authenticate an email address to use, ask the SysAdmin to do this for you. Once it's been done, you'll receive an email to authenticate your email address. Then add the email to the .env:

```
EMAIL_ADDRESS=""
```

### GCP Storage

We use GCP Storage for storing our assets (such as performance images, host images, profile images etc.). See above about asking a SysAdmin for setting up your GCP account.

Navigate to `IAM & Admin` -> `Service Accounts`. There are a few variables that you will need to add for using the storage in a development environment.

```
GOOGLE_STORAGE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL=""
```

The email can be found from clicking on the `storage-stage` key and copying the **Email**.

In development you can set these two variables to these values:

```
GOOGLE_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME="su-test-bucket"
GOOGLE_STORAGE_PUBLIC_URL="https://storage.cloud.google.com"
```

For the `GOOGLE_STORAGE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY` variable you will need to create a new key inside the storage-stage and then copy the private key from the JSON object that is generated. You need to copy the entire string, including `-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----` and `-----END PRIVATE KEY-----`.
